<div align="center">

[< *Wave-particle duality*](1.1.wave-particle_duality.md) | [**Summary**](0.0.intro.md#summary) | [*Entanglement* >](1.3.entanglement.md)

#
# [Superposition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_superposition)

[Classical vs. Quantum States](#classical-vs-quantum-states) |
[Mathematical Representation](#mathematical-representation) | 
[Experimental Observations](#experimental-observations)
</div>

## Classical vs. Quantum States

In classical physics, a physical system can exist in only one state at any given time. For example, a light switch can be either ON or OFF, and a coin can be either heads or tails.

In quantum mechanics, however, particles such as electrons, photons, and atoms can exist in a superposition of multiple states simultaneously. This means that they can be in a combination of different states at the same time.

## Mathematical Representation

In quantum mechanics, the state of a system is described by a mathematical entity called a [wavefunction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wave_function) (or state vector). The wavefunction encodes all the information about the system, including its possible states and their probabilities.

A superposition state is represented by a linear combination of basis states, where each basis state corresponds to a possible outcome of a measurement.

Mathematically, if $|\Psi{1}\rangle$ and $|\Psi{2}\rangle$ are two possible states of a quantum system, then their superposition state is given by $|\Psi\rangle = \alpha|\Psi{1}\rangle + \beta|\Psi{2}\rangle$ where $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are complex numbers representing probability amplitudes.

## Experimental Observations

Superposition has been experimentally verified in numerous experiments, such as the [double-slit experiment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-slit_experiment). In this experiment, particles like electrons or photons are fired through two slits onto a screen. When unobserved, they form an interference pattern characteristic of waves, indicating that they passed through both slits simultaneously.

Other experiments, such as the [Stern-Gerlach experiment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stern%E2%80%93Gerlach_experiment) and [nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_magnetic_resonance_spectroscopy#:~:text=Nuclear%20magnetic%20resonance%20spectroscopy%2C%20most,in%20an%20external%20magnetic%20field.), also provide evidence of superposition and the ability of quantum systems to exist in multiple states simultaneously.

<div align="center">

#
[< *Wave-particle duality*](1.1.wave-particle_duality.md) | [**Summary**](0.0.intro.md#summary) | [*Entanglement* >](1.3.entanglement.md)

</div>
